
For my application, I chose to work with Java Swing. Java Swing is a GUI toolkit that uses GUI components. GUI is the graphical user interface which allow the user to interact with a program by manipulating graphical icons by clicking them, typing into them, or using another means of interaction. The GUI is seen as an alternative to the methods of using the command window, which obtains user input from typed commands. Using GUI, the user is able to be more efficient by clicking a button rather than typing everything they need. Swing belongs to the Java Foundation classes which are an application programming interface for java programs that use GUI. AWT or Java Abstract Widget Toolkit is the older GUI toolkit that is platform dependent and serves as the foundation for the Swing Library. In my project, I imported the javax.swing package in order to access all of the classes offered in swing. The swing classes that I implemented in my project include: JFrame, JTextField, and JButton, along with the addition of the java swing interface called ActionListener.
The first and most important class that was implemented in this project was JFrame. JFrame is an extension of the java.awt.Frame class and it adds support for Swing and other JFC components. The methods for the JFrame class include: frameName.add(), frameName.setSize(), frameName.setLayout(), and  frameName.setVisible(). The method add() is used when adding a child component to the frame such as a button, textfield, textArea, checkbox, etc. This method will allow the added components to be visible on the frame. The method called setSize() is inherited from the java.awt.Window class and it is used to set the pixel size of the frame by passing in two int values, one int to represent width and the other for height. Another inherited method from java.awt.Window is .setVisible() which is used to show or hide a window based on the parameter passed  in which is a boolean value. 
	Another class that was implemented in this project was JButton.JButton creates a interactive clickable button with the option to specify the text placed on the button with an overloaded constructor called JButton. JButton offers both the ability to specify no text parameter or include the text that will be displayed on the button like so JButton buttonName = new JButton(“5”) or JButton buttonName = new JButton(). When you need to manipulate or view the text on a button, you can use the built in getter and setter methods called .getText() and .setText() which allow you to view the button text and set it to a new value, respectively. The getText() method was especially useful for the JButtons in my project because the value of the button was typed into the text field. If you wanted to change the visual aspect of the buttons used in the program, such as the button layout, you would need to implement .setBounds() for each button used. This method is inherited from java.awt.Component and allows you to specify a point on the frame and a width and height. The parameters are as follows: buttonName.setBounds(x, y, width, height). These parameters allow for the top left corner of the button to be placed at the specific point and for the width and height of the button to be set according to that chosen point.  
	JTextField was a class that was also implemented in this project. JTextField is a class that is used to create a textField that is able to be directly typed into by the user. To set the visual aspect of the textbox, there are two methods called .setBounds() and .setColumns() which are used. The first method, setBounds(), is used the same way as the setBounds() method for JButton since it will take int parameters that specify x value, y value, width, and height. The second method, setColumns, is used to set a limit of how many characters can be viewed in the textbox at a time by passing an int value to the method. To simulate typing with onscreen buttons into the textField,  a button click event can be set to use the method setText() for the textfield to set the text in the field to be the existing text in the field with the new typed value from the button concatenated with it. 
	An additional component of java swing that was very beneficial to this project was the interface called ActionListener. Since ActionListener is an interface, this means that it is a way in which the user can interact with the program. In this case, the ActionListener will “listen for” or receive action events. Upon receiving these action events, the ActionListener has to define what activity should occur when a specific action event happens. The action events are provided by the implementation of the method .addActionListener. This method comes from the java swing AbstractButton class, and it allows a component such as buttons or checkboxes to include an ActionListener when the user interacts with them. These interactions trigger an ActionEvent which then triggers a method called actionPerformed that implements a specified activity to occur when the ActionEvent has occurred. When applying this to my project, I used ActionListener to work with button clicking events. Every button in my project included an ActionListener using the addActionListener() method with the actionPerformed being a typing action for numbers and operators and different actions for buttons such as clear and delete which were also used to manipulate the text field, but in different ways. 
Overall, this project allowed for the ability to work with graphical user interfaces through the use of java packages such as java swing and AWT. Using AWT, as a foundation, swing can implement many classes and interfaces. Extending from Java AWT, JFrame allows for the ability to create a “canvas” or window to display all of the GUI components in. It allows for modifications to be made to the size, visibility, visible components, and many other aspects. A class that was found to be more specific to java swing was JButton which was used to create clickable buttons with the ability to modify size, text, and other visual attributes. The class called JTextField also included similar visual modification abilities but included the ability to set the number of characters or columns that can be displayed in the text field at a given time. The interface called ActionListener provides the main functionality for both buttons and text fields in java swing. It allows for the ability to define activities that will be executed when a specific event occurs such as a button click. Therefore, this allows for the full implementation of a program as an graphical user interface due to the ability of the user to interact with the program in a way that is not purely text based, using button click events to receive input and process it according to the event triggered and the component it is associated with. 
